#rvmrc.sh

##SYN

A simple script which creates a rvmrc interactively. Presents you with a choice of rubies, and then creates the
gemset name based on the directory name.

#usage.sh

#SYN

Reads from the top of a shell script for a comment line like "#USAGE", reads 
again, recording all the input, till it sees "#USAGE", at which point it generates
a function "usage" in the current namespace which displays that information

#USAGE
(meta, I know.)

imagine a script like:

    #!/bin/bash
    #USAGE
    # bar     | does a thing
    #USAGE
    function foo {
        bar() {
          echo "baz"
        }
    }

if you do:

    #!/bin/bash
    #USAGE
    # bar     | does a thing
    #USAGE
    function foo {
        source "usage.sh"

        bar() {
          echo "baz"
        }
        
        case $1 in 
          bar) bar
          usage) usage $PWD/$0
        esac
    }
    foo $@

and reply by echoing the content between "#USAGE" tags, without the '#'s, and 
with all other spacing preserved. eg:

     bar     | does a thing

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#tmuxen.sh

##SYN

tmuxen.sh provides functions for managing multiple-concurrent tmux sessions,
with decoupled windows. That is to say, two different terminals (perhaps remote
) can connect to the same tmux session, observe different windows simultaneously,
and (assuming they're on different windows) edit content simultaneously.

tmux already provides this functionality, but access to it is non-trivial, and
leaves some garbage which needs to be collected periodically. This script aims
to simplify and automate those processes.

in addition, tmuxen.sh represents an opinionated configuration of tmux, designed
to be trivial to install and start using. It further provides a way to script
ohe setup of a "shared" environment which will be syndicated across multiple
sessions. See [USE CASES]() for details thereupon.

##INTERFACE

    tmux spawn <session> [-w <script>]

spawns a new session with <session> as the name, does not attach to the session.
If <script> is provided, that script is executed with the session's name as it's
first argument. This allows the scripting of the setup of the new session.

    tmux connect <session>

attaches to an existing session, but in a desynced way, as described above

    tmux kill <session>

kills the named session, and detaches all attached tmuxen

    tmux garbage [<session>]

removes all duplicated connections to the given session to which noone is attached.
If no session is given, does this for all sessions. Eg, assume there are sessions
like:

      foo     A
      foo-1
      foo-2   A
      bar
      bar-1
      bar-2

Running `tmux garbage foo` will leave you with:

      foo   A
      foo-2 A
      bar
      bar-1
      bar-2

and running `tmux garbage` will leave you with:

      foo   A
      foo-2 A
      bar

The next foo session will be foo-3. It is suggested that this command is run often, to
avoid cluttering your tmux server and potentially affecting performance.

    tmux prune <session>

removes all but the original tmux session, removes even clients attached in sub-sessions.
Eg, given

      foo     A
      foo-1
      foo-2   A
      bar
      bar-1
      bar-2

Running `tmux prune foo`, will give:

      foo     A
      bar
      bar-1
      bar-2


##INSTALLATION

install with:

    curl <url> | sh

if you want to remove tmuxen, running

    tmux tmuxen-implode

will restore normal tmux functionality, and -- if `.tmux.conf.existing` exists,
will prompt you to swap your current `.tmux.conf` for that (writing `.tmux.conf`
to `.tmux.conf.tmuxen` in the process)

##ROADMAP

  v0.1.0 goals:

    1) all command functionality present, with manual testing
    2) config included in script
    3) bash bomb installation (a la bash + curl / bash + wget)

  v0.5.0 goals:

    1) install/implode functionality in place,
    2) some automatic testing where possible.
        (unit testing bash scripts is often non-trivial)

  v1.0.0 goals:

    1) scripting/hooks for commands.
    2) full automatic testing suite (dependent on building such a thing)

  >v1.0.0 goals:

    merge some of this functionality into tmux proper? :)

##GLOSSARY

    tmux, n. (pl. "tmuxen")

1. A tool for multiplexing a terminal emulator.

2. A single named session of the tmux multiplexer.

    to tmux, v.

1. To make use of the "tmux" tool, "tmuxen" is an irregular gerund form of this
  verb.

    session, n.

1. A set of attached clients to a given tmux, eg, I have a "play" session, which
  has three clients attached

    client, n.

1. A single terminal emulator, running the tmux program, which is attached
  to a single session.

    to attach, v.

1. To add oneself (syncronously) to a session. Meaning that your terminal will
  exactly mirror any other terminal attached to that session

    to connect, v.
1. To add oneself (desyncronously) to a session. Meaning that your terminal is
  free to move to another shell in the session

    window, n. (syn: "subshell", "shell", "terminal")

1. A single multiplex terminal emulator within a given tmux


##USE CASES

  1. Sharing an IRC session across a "work" and "play" tmux

I start by spawning a tmux via `tmux spawn irc`, in which I execute my favorite
IRC client. Also, I turn off the statusline for this tmux.

I then spawn two more tmuxen, eg `tmux spawn work` and `tmux spawn play`. In each,
I open a shell and attach to the "irc" tmux. This is a syncronous attachment, but
there is only one window. The effect is that I have joined these two tmuxen to
each other, spawning only one instance of the irc program.

This use case also fits when you want to share rtorrent/mpd players/similar "global"
programs, but want to separate, as is implied, work from play.

  2. High-speed pair programming

Jack and Jill are writing code, Jack sets up a user account for Jill on his system,
Jill ssh's to Jack's system and connects to a tmux session. While Jack is writing
up a test, Jill is in another window, setting opening up some files which will need
be edited to make the test pass. Jill takes over driving while Jack watches and runs
the tests. Jill asks Jack to run a migration to add a property they agree they'll need.
While Jack writes the migration, Jill finishes cleaning up the code and gets ready
to run the migration.

The benefit here is that this style of high-speed driver switching means you don't have
the dreaded "drag along developer" problem. Wherein one member of the pair is doing
all the code, and the other is doing nothing but twiddling his thumbs and catching spelling
errors. This methodology also is useful in bringing new developers onto the project,
since they can handle the more tedious (in the eyes of the more experienced developer) tasks
which teach the fundamental aspects of the system, while the main developer is free
to focus on extending (and explaining) the more esoteric/complex feature they may be
working on.

  3. Bulletin board

For a particularly odd usage, imagine a single machine is running a tmux to which
many developers in a team attach. Such a session may contain notes for other developers,
a session in which two non-paring developers might connect to do some impromptu knowledge
transfer, or contain a continuous stream of exception logs / long lived connections
to servers. In this way, the "bulletin board" server can function a virtual meeting ground.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#dirmark.sh

Dirstack is great when you're jumping within a linear directory structure. eg,
going from

    /a/b/c/d/e
    /a/b/c
    /a/b/c/d
    /a/b/c
    /a/b/c/d/e

But, if you're jumping between three or four different directories repeatedly,
it's pretty annoying to work out how to get the stack to play fair with you.

Take, for instance, the case of the ruby application-with-custom-middleware.
You might have a structure like:

    /code/app
    /code/middleware
    /code/backend/server/api/libs

Basically, what you want to be able to jump from app to the `libs` subdir to
the middleware subdir, and be able to go "back" that's easy enough, it'd be:

    dirstack push ../middleware #put PWD on the stack, go to middleware dir
    dirstack push . # put ../middleware on top of the stack
    dirstack swap # make ../app be the top of the stack, with middleware below

Now I'm in middleware, and I can `dirstack pop` to get to the app dir, and if
I do that again, I'll jump back to middleware, and that's the end. If I want
to preserve the stack as I go, I'd have to use:

    dirstack push .
    dirstack swap
    dirstack pop

God help you when you want to include jumping to subdirectories, or a third
member of this `cd` tango.

Enter `dirmark`, dirmark is basic bookmarking for directories. The idea is
easy enough, in the above scenario, instead of the ds nightmare, we want
this:

    #in --/app
    dirmark mark: current as: APP
    cd ../middleware
    dirmark mark: current as: MID
    cd ../wherever/else/you/like
    dirmark mark: current as: SOMEWHERE
    # ... later ...
    dirmark goto: APP
    # PWD is now --/app

That's a little annoying though, with the current's everywhere, so we should
support:

    dirmark as: <NAME> #mark's the current directory as <NAME>

We also should be able to do

    dirmark mark: /some/path as: <NAME>

This, in addition to some support methods (clear, show, etc), would totally
solve our problem. The true value comes when you have to jump to distant
directories (like, perhaps, when you have to jump from the source for some
ruby gem and back to your app)
